---
layout: post
title:  "Wherein I ask, 'Wherefore?'"
date:   2019-03-02 00:15:53 -0500
categories: [rpg]
tags: [rpg, solo, jef]
---

### Once upon a time...

I created a blog. On Blogger. This Blogger blog was created almost exactly a decade ago, and was meant largely to be a travelogue of my then-forthcoming trip to Japan. However, due to Blogger's seeming unwillingness to accept the images I was attempting to thrust upon it, I ended up just posting a few philosphical musings and then putting the whole thing to bed. 

Ten years have passed since then. Ten. 1-0. Years. Have I had things to say to the world during that time? Yeah, I reckon. I have sloshed more than my own goblet's worth of syllables all over the unsuspecting social networks and forums that I subscribe to over the years. But over time, I noticed a certain kind of... _fatigue_ setting in. I mean, I enjoy keeping up with the things going on in my friends' and family's lives, and I hate talking on the phone, so social networks seem like a goddamn panacea in that regard, am I right? 

Yeah, that guy in the back knows what I'm talking about. 

_However,_ because of the short, quippy nature of these platforms, it's hard to escape the intrinsic sense of judgement--positive or negative, intentional or not--that seems to be baked into their very natures. There's plenty to say about this, but I think it essentially comes down to _communication_ without _connection_. Like, alternating monologues masquerading as dialogues, you know? A lot of nuance and empathy and humanity tends to get lost in the gears of the ol' post & comment grind, but judgement...judgement has a way of sticking around, rattling at the bottom of the sifter when all the better stuff has fallen away. Hell, just pick an emoji, and you've communicated your moral stance on some soul's last night dinner pic. _Effortless._

### Anyway,

I got tired of putting myself out there, I guess. It's not like I suffered some emotional trauma from bullying or anything that would justify my growing reticence to share, but...there the reticence was, all the same. Perhaps it was just the years of trying to overcome the instinct to protect the soft parts--documented, incidentally (and perhaps even ironically?) on [my aforementioned Blogger blog bloggity bloggo bloggy blog](https://derthnada.blogspot.com/2009/05/on-being-good-mammal-and-ensuing.html)--that ground my once pointed desire to be a contributing member of the internet community down to an inoffensive and impotent nubbin. 

### So, Why? (AKA The Big Reveal!)

So why on earth am I starting a blog again now? Especially one so obviously oriented towards the like, 10 or 11 other people in the world that are interested things like solo roleplaying games and shitty code and, uh, me?

Honestly? 

**I just want to participate in #SoloAModule month, and needed a place to write up my experiences and observations.**

Yep. That's it. 

Now, you may be thinking something like, "wait wait wait...you wrote all those paragraphs leading up to something, and it was to...to _that_?" Haha, yeah. I feel kinda bad...I mean, like, bad for you, because look at how much time you've wasted, man! Hell, you might not even know what **#SoloAModule** month even is, so the payoff is...wow, just truly devoid of value of any kind. You can't even claim a life lesson as a consolation prize, because you're not going to _learn_ anything about what **#SoloAModue** is right now. I mean, look at that: **#SoloAModule**. It's not a link. It doesn't go anywhere. It's a meaningless mockery of a hashtag, and that's all you have. You've reached the end of this, and you've gained nothing. 

_How does that make you feel?_


### Well, cue the disco lights

 However you feel, you'd better get used to it, pal! Because as long as you're straddling the loud, hot, bucking chassis of the  **Mystery Creation Engine**, you're going to be getting more of that feeling than you can probably even handle! At least without some sort of prescription medication! Or a companion animal! Or a different blog!

Welcome aboard!